README.md, before:

# Project Portfolio 2 - Rock Paper Scissors Lizard Spock
## An interactive game based off the variation from the Big Bang Theory 
### PP2 - Amy Rixon - 28/05/2024

![I am responsive screenshot](assets/images/readme_images/air_rpsls.webp)



## **[Live Site](https://noxiryma.github.io/pp2_js_rpsls/)**
## **[Repository](https://github.com/noxiryma/pp2_js_rpsls)**


## Table of contents

1. [ About ](#about)
2. [ Features ](#features)  
3. [ Features Left to Implement ](#left)  
4. [ Technology used ](#tech) 
5. [ Testing ](#testing)  
6. [ Deployment ](#deployment)
7. [ Bugs ](#bugs)  
8. [ Credits, Content and Resources](#credits)
9. [ Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)  


<a name="about"></a>
## About 

This website is part of my second portfolio project for the Code Institute's Full Stack Software Developer Diploma. The required main
technologies for this project were:

HTML,
CSS, 
and Javascript. 

I chose to create a site using the Project Portfolio example 1 in which the brief was to build a Rock, Paper, Scissors, Lizard, Spock
game. The game was to involve a game of chance by the user being put up against a computer. 

The project requirements were to include: 

>Pattern matching functionality
>A limited number of tries before the game is over
>A score tracking system
>The ability to play against the computer


The design of the website was one that I wanted to kept quite simple so it was easy for the user to navigate. I also wanted to pay homage to The Big Bang Theory by creating a comic book style presentation a reference to the t-shirts that Sheldon was famous for wearing. I also looked to old style arcade games such as Space Invaders and Pac Man as influence on the styles of font used. 


### Colour Scheme 

![Color wheel screenshot](assets/images/readme_images/colour_scheme.webp)

The colour scheme I decided to focus on was a minimalist approach to the colours found in a majority of the images selected for this 
website. I focussed on the blue tone of Spock's smock to build the base of colour choice for this project rather than using clashing
colours. 


### Font 

The font family used for this site is 

### "Bungee", sans-serif 

![Bungee screenshot](assets/images/readme_images/bungee_font.webp)

with a weight of 400 the font is easy to read and prints the text on the page in all capital letters. Much like old arcade games. 

For the rest of the content outside of h1 to h6 and the buttons. I used a different font called 

### "Teko", sans-serif;

![Teko screenshot](assets/images/readme_images/teko_font.webp)

The font was chosen for it’s accessibility as well as it’s design. The text is clear to read with lowercase and uppercase whilst also sitting with a similar style to Bungee. 

<a name="features"></a>
## FEATURES

### Home Page
The website has 4 different pages presented to the user. 

The first being the home page. This is the landing page for the site and displays the title of the game and the site at the top in clear bold writing. There are then 3 buttons displayed for the user to navigate. Home, The Rules and Start Game. 

![Home page](assets/images/readme_images/home_page.webp)

### Navigation Buttons
As the user hovers over the buttons with a mouse they change colour to highlight this is the one they are about to select. I styled the buttons in CSS and added rounded corners to them to create a pleasant and modern appearance rather than a harsh box. 

![Navigation buttons](assets/images/readme_images/button_hover_feature.webp)

I placed the navigation buttons in order from left to right as to how the user should navigate through them. First clicking on the rules button to learn the rules of the game. Then clicking on the start game button to start the game. 

On smaller screens from 320px up to 768px the navigation buttons flex direction were changed from row to column. 

![Navigation buttons mobile 320px](assets/images/readme_images/320px_home.webp)

For mobile phones from 320px to 480px I did consider adding in a burger menu but wanted to reduce the number of clicks on the website for the user to start playing the game. I felt that centering, increasing the width and adding a margin in between the buttons would still make the navigation menu easy for the user to use whilst keeping a neat and smooth appearance. 

![Navigation buttons mobile 480px](assets/images/readme_images/480px_home.webp)

The navigation buttons on a 480px screen up to 1024px still take up a large width of the screen but it has been reduced with the width value changed using CSS so that the buttons sit just within the you vs computer box underneath. This I also felt kept in with the style of a button clicking game. 


### The Rules 

Upon clicking on the rules button a modal appears on the webpage with an embedded video of Sheldon explaining the rules of the game to the user. I also included a text transcript of the rules underneath the video in case there are any hard of hearing users for the game as they would not be able to read the subtitles of the video due to it's size on smaller screens. I added a start from and end video so that the rest of the content in the video which is not relevant to the game distracts from the object of learning the rules only. 

![Modal](assets/images/readme_images/modal.webp)

On smaller screens the video is adapted in size to fit the width and height of the modal using styling in CSS. 

![320px Modal](assets/images/readme_images/320px_modal.webp)

### Start Game 

The start game button then loads the game underneath the main box on the home page of the You vs Computer images. This was created using an onclick function in Javascript getting the elements of the home and game area by their ID and using the display function. The user can navigate away from the game page by clicking the home button again.

![Start game](assets/images/readme_images/start_game.webp)

I decided to include this function after initially creating the game page as an external game.html file and looking at other example game websites I realised it was cleaner and would allow me to use more Javascript features to have everything on one page. I also wanted the home page to look clean and not messy with the game underneath. 

### Rounds 

When the game first loads the round number is set to 0 and the user is informed that best of 5 games wins. As the user plays the round numbers increase with a result text declaring if the user has won, lost or drawn with the computer. The user score and the computer score is also updated as the rounds are played. Both of these features were written in Javascript using the increment and identifying the start numbers as zero. 

![Rounds](assets/images/readme_images/round_result.webp)

### User vs Computer images 

The You vs Computer section starts with an identifying image of each player. The You being a comic book style speech bubble and the Computer being the image of a vintage computer. The images were given the same styling of the buttons that the player selects below this section. 

The images display what each player has selected for each round. This is done in Javascript using playerImage.src and computerImage.src  in the runGame function. The images then reset back to the You and Computer images when the user hits the reset button.


<a name="left"></a>
## Features left to implement

>>
>>
>> 

<a name="tech"></a>
### Technology used  

### HTML

Used to build the structure of the web pages 

### CSS 

To style the website 

### Javascript 

Detail in here the different functions, onclick events, event listeners, score incrementation, round incrementation, random choice generator for computer

### Googlefonts

For the selection and use of a font style for the website 

### Pixelied 

Used to convert png files to webp files for images used. 

<a name="testing"></a>
## Testing 

**Testing for links and form** 

| Test | Outcome |
|--|--|
| All internal links lead to the correct page | Yes |

**Testing for responsiveness**
| Test | Outcome |
|--|--|
|Home and Start Game pages all display correctly on screens smaller than 768px | Yes |
|Home and Start Game pages all display correctly on screens bigger than 768px | Yes |

## HTML Validation Testing 

No errors were presented upon final testing in [HTML validator](https://validator.w3.org/). 

![HTML validator](assets/images/readme_images/html_checker_good.webp)


## CSS Validation Testing 

No errors were presented upon final testing in [CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)

![CSS validator](assets/images/readme_images/css_validator_good.webp)

## Javascript Validation Testing 



## Google Lighthouse Testing 



<a name="deployment"></a>
## Deployment 

I deployed the project to GitHub pages using the following steps:

+ In the GitHub repository, navigate to the Settings tab
+ From the source section drop-down menu, select the Master Branch
+ Once the master branch has been selected, the page will be automatically refreshed with a detailed ribbon display to indicate the successful deployment.

The live link can be found here: 

<a name="bugs"></a>
## Bugs  


<a name="credits"></a>
## Credits, Content & Resources 

### [w3 schools](https://www.w3schools.com/)

Used for general tips and instructions on writing HTML, CSS and Javascript

### [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net/full-stack-software-development-diploma/?utm_term=code%20institute&utm_campaign=CI%2B-%2BUK%2B-%2BSearch%2B-%2BBrand&utm_source=adwords&utm_medium=ppc&hsa_acc=8983321581&hsa_cam=1578649861&hsa_grp=62188641240&hsa_ad=635720257674&hsa_src=g&hsa_tgt=kwd-319867646331&hsa_kw=code%20institute&hsa_mt=e&hsa_net=adwords&hsa_ver=3&gad_source=1&gclid=EAIaIQobChMIysPPieLJhQMVl5VQBh2ZVQSEEAAYASAAEgJOn_D_BwE&nab=1&utm_referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.google.com%2F) 

### [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)

Icons for the footer were taken from the Font Awesome website 

### [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Quicksand?preview.text=So%20Hum)

Font selected for website was taken from Google Fonts website 


## Images

![Rock]
(https://app.leonardo.ai/5f38768f-0369-4894-bb0e-0c9f91caa92a)

![Paper]
(https://app.leonardo.ai/4252eae4-2a3b-4c7c-9dea-582b816a83b3)

![Scissors]
(https://app.leonardo.ai/4b8b6055-9eb1-4ad4-9b75-fa170f9b9009)

![Lizard]
(https://app.leonardo.ai/9f82b425-a36a-40e1-839b-fe74a4a74c47)

![Spock] 
(https://app.leonardo.ai/f9e61247-c030-4924-9bcd-9ada06b23cfa)

![Computer]
(https://app.leonardo.ai/781d65f6-20a9-4da1-aa39-c1f2ee0e50ad)

![You]
(https://app.leonardo.ai/9bfbcd02-8e29-4079-a0a9-e9fa761ab4c0)

## Icon 

![Favicon](https://favicon.io/favicon-converter/) converter was used to transform the below icon into a usable icon for the website. 

![Hand Icon](https://www.flaticon.com/free-icon/scissors_9534501?term=rock+paper+scissors&page=1&position=2&origin=search&related_id=9534501)

<a name="acknowledgements"></a>
## Acknowledgements 

### Alan Bushell

Commit message:

Add content to Technology used section of README.md

README.md, after:

# Project Portfolio 2 - Rock Paper Scissors Lizard Spock
## An interactive game based off the variation from the Big Bang Theory 
### PP2 - Amy Rixon - 28/05/2024

![I am responsive screenshot](assets/images/readme_images/air_rpsls.webp)



## **[Live Site](https://noxiryma.github.io/pp2_js_rpsls/)**
## **[Repository](https://github.com/noxiryma/pp2_js_rpsls)**


## Table of contents

1. [ About ](#about)
2. [ Features ](#features)  
3. [ Features Left to Implement ](#left)  
4. [ Technology used ](#tech) 
5. [ Testing ](#testing)  
6. [ Deployment ](#deployment)
7. [ Bugs ](#bugs)  
8. [ Credits, Content and Resources](#credits)
9. [ Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)  


<a name="about"></a>
## About 

This website is part of my second portfolio project for the Code Institute's Full Stack Software Developer Diploma. The required main
technologies for this project were:

HTML,
CSS, 
and Javascript. 

I chose to create a site using the Project Portfolio example 1 in which the brief was to build a Rock, Paper, Scissors, Lizard, Spock
game. The game was to involve a game of chance by the user being put up against a computer. 

The project requirements were to include: 

>Pattern matching functionality
>A limited number of tries before the game is over
>A score tracking system
>The ability to play against the computer


The design of the website was one that I wanted to kept quite simple so it was easy for the user to navigate. I also wanted to pay homage to The Big Bang Theory by creating a comic book style presentation a reference to the t-shirts that Sheldon was famous for wearing. I also looked to old style arcade games such as Space Invaders and Pac Man as influence on the styles of font used. 


### Colour Scheme 

![Color wheel screenshot](assets/images/readme_images/colour_scheme.webp)

The colour scheme I decided to focus on was a minimalist approach to the colours found in a majority of the images selected for this 
website. I focussed on the blue tone of Spock's smock to build the base of colour choice for this project rather than using clashing
colours. 


### Font 

The font family used for this site is 

### "Bungee", sans-serif 

![Bungee screenshot](assets/images/readme_images/bungee_font.webp)

with a weight of 400 the font is easy to read and prints the text on the page in all capital letters. Much like old arcade games. 

For the rest of the content outside of h1 to h6 and the buttons. I used a different font called 

### "Teko", sans-serif;

![Teko screenshot](assets/images/readme_images/teko_font.webp)

The font was chosen for it’s accessibility as well as it’s design. The text is clear to read with lowercase and uppercase whilst also sitting with a similar style to Bungee. 

<a name="features"></a>
## FEATURES

### Home Page
The website has 4 different pages presented to the user. 

The first being the home page. This is the landing page for the site and displays the title of the game and the site at the top in clear bold writing. There are then 3 buttons displayed for the user to navigate. Home, The Rules and Start Game. 

![Home page](assets/images/readme_images/home_page.webp)

### Navigation Buttons
As the user hovers over the buttons with a mouse they change colour to highlight this is the one they are about to select. I styled the buttons in CSS and added rounded corners to them to create a pleasant and modern appearance rather than a harsh box. 

![Navigation buttons](assets/images/readme_images/button_hover_feature.webp)

I placed the navigation buttons in order from left to right as to how the user should navigate through them. First clicking on the rules button to learn the rules of the game. Then clicking on the start game button to start the game. 

On smaller screens from 320px up to 768px the navigation buttons flex direction were changed from row to column. 

![Navigation buttons mobile 320px](assets/images/readme_images/320px_home.webp)

For mobile phones from 320px to 480px I did consider adding in a burger menu but wanted to reduce the number of clicks on the website for the user to start playing the game. I felt that centering, increasing the width and adding a margin in between the buttons would still make the navigation menu easy for the user to use whilst keeping a neat and smooth appearance. 

![Navigation buttons mobile 480px](assets/images/readme_images/480px_home.webp)

The navigation buttons on a 480px screen up to 1024px still take up a large width of the screen but it has been reduced with the width value changed using CSS so that the buttons sit just within the you vs computer box underneath. This I also felt kept in with the style of a button clicking game. 


### The Rules 

Upon clicking on the rules button a modal appears on the webpage with an embedded video of Sheldon explaining the rules of the game to the user. I also included a text transcript of the rules underneath the video in case there are any hard of hearing users for the game as they would not be able to read the subtitles of the video due to it's size on smaller screens. I added a start from and end video so that the rest of the content in the video which is not relevant to the game distracts from the object of learning the rules only. 

![Modal](assets/images/readme_images/modal.webp)

On smaller screens the video is adapted in size to fit the width and height of the modal using styling in CSS. 

![320px Modal](assets/images/readme_images/320px_modal.webp)

### Start Game 

The start game button then loads the game underneath the main box on the home page of the You vs Computer images. This was created using an onclick function in Javascript getting the elements of the home and game area by their ID and using the display function. The user can navigate away from the game page by clicking the home button again.

![Start game](assets/images/readme_images/start_game.webp)

I decided to include this function after initially creating the game page as an external game.html file and looking at other example game websites I realised it was cleaner and would allow me to use more Javascript features to have everything on one page. I also wanted the home page to look clean and not messy with the game underneath. 

### Rounds 

When the game first loads the round number is set to 0 and the user is informed that best of 5 games wins. As the user plays the round numbers increase with a result text declaring if the user has won, lost or drawn with the computer. The user score and the computer score is also updated as the rounds are played. Both of these features were written in Javascript using the increment and identifying the start numbers as zero. 

![Rounds](assets/images/readme_images/round_result.webp)

### User vs Computer images 

The You vs Computer section starts with an identifying image of each player. The You being a comic book style speech bubble and the Computer being the image of a vintage computer. The images were given the same styling of the buttons that the player selects below this section. 

The images display what each player has selected for each round. This is done in Javascript using playerImage.src and computerImage.src  in the runGame function. The images then reset back to the You and Computer images when the user hits the reset button.


<a name="left"></a>
## Features left to implement

>>
>>
>> 

<a name="tech"></a>
### Technology used  

### HTML

Used to build the structure of the web page. 

### CSS 

To style the website across multiple media screens

### Javascript 

>>Used to create functions to run the game, end the game and reset the game. 
>>Onclick events used to display content of the page. 
>>Event listeners used for user activity. 
>>Incrementation used for increasing the user, computer and number of rounds played. 
>>Random number and case used for computer selection. 
>>Text content used to display the result, user, computer and round number. 


### Googlefonts

For the selection and use of a font style for the website 

### Pixelied 

Used to convert png files to webp files for images used. 

<a name="testing"></a>
## Testing 

**Testing for links and form** 

| Test | Outcome |
|--|--|
| All internal links lead to the correct page | Yes |

**Testing for responsiveness**
| Test | Outcome |
|--|--|
|Home and Start Game pages all display correctly on screens smaller than 768px | Yes |
|Home and Start Game pages all display correctly on screens bigger than 768px | Yes |

## HTML Validation Testing 

No errors were presented upon final testing in [HTML validator](https://validator.w3.org/). 

![HTML validator](assets/images/readme_images/html_checker_good.webp)


## CSS Validation Testing 

No errors were presented upon final testing in [CSS Validator](https://jigsaw.w3.org/css-validator/)

![CSS validator](assets/images/readme_images/css_validator_good.webp)

## Javascript Validation Testing 



## Google Lighthouse Testing 



<a name="deployment"></a>
## Deployment 

I deployed the project to GitHub pages using the following steps:

+ In the GitHub repository, navigate to the Settings tab
+ From the source section drop-down menu, select the Master Branch
+ Once the master branch has been selected, the page will be automatically refreshed with a detailed ribbon display to indicate the successful deployment.

The live link can be found here: 

<a name="bugs"></a>
## Bugs  


<a name="credits"></a>
## Credits, Content & Resources 

### [w3 schools](https://www.w3schools.com/)

Used for general tips and instructions on writing HTML, CSS and Javascript

### [Code Institute](https://codeinstitute.net/full-stack-software-development-diploma/?utm_term=code%20institute&utm_campaign=CI%2B-%2BUK%2B-%2BSearch%2B-%2BBrand&utm_source=adwords&utm_medium=ppc&hsa_acc=8983321581&hsa_cam=1578649861&hsa_grp=62188641240&hsa_ad=635720257674&hsa_src=g&hsa_tgt=kwd-319867646331&hsa_kw=code%20institute&hsa_mt=e&hsa_net=adwords&hsa_ver=3&gad_source=1&gclid=EAIaIQobChMIysPPieLJhQMVl5VQBh2ZVQSEEAAYASAAEgJOn_D_BwE&nab=1&utm_referrer=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.google.com%2F) 

### [Font Awesome](https://fontawesome.com/)

Icons for the footer were taken from the Font Awesome website 

### [Google Fonts](https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Quicksand?preview.text=So%20Hum)

Font selected for website was taken from Google Fonts website 


## Images

![Rock]
(https://app.leonardo.ai/5f38768f-0369-4894-bb0e-0c9f91caa92a)

![Paper]
(https://app.leonardo.ai/4252eae4-2a3b-4c7c-9dea-582b816a83b3)

![Scissors]
(https://app.leonardo.ai/4b8b6055-9eb1-4ad4-9b75-fa170f9b9009)

![Lizard]
(https://app.leonardo.ai/9f82b425-a36a-40e1-839b-fe74a4a74c47)

![Spock] 
(https://app.leonardo.ai/f9e61247-c030-4924-9bcd-9ada06b23cfa)

![Computer]
(https://app.leonardo.ai/781d65f6-20a9-4da1-aa39-c1f2ee0e50ad)

![You]
(https://app.leonardo.ai/9bfbcd02-8e29-4079-a0a9-e9fa761ab4c0)

## Icon 

![Favicon](https://favicon.io/favicon-converter/) converter was used to transform the below icon into a usable icon for the website. 

![Hand Icon](https://www.flaticon.com/free-icon/scissors_9534501?term=rock+paper+scissors&page=1&position=2&origin=search&related_id=9534501)

<a name="acknowledgements"></a>
## Acknowledgements 

### Alan Bushell
